#  طريقة حساب تكلفة التدريب

To calculate training costs, you need to factor in all of the direct and indirect costs associated with training. Direct costs include the cost of training materials, instructor fees, and travel expenses. Indirect costs include the cost of employee time spent in training and the opportunity cost of lost productivity.

Here is a formula for calculating training costs:
``````
Training costs = Direct costs + Indirect costs
``````
**Direct costs:**

* Training materials: This includes the cost of textbooks, workbooks, handouts, and other materials that employees will use during training.
* Instructor fees: This includes the cost of hiring an instructor to deliver the training.
* Travel expenses: This includes the cost of travel and accommodations for employees who need to travel to attend training.

**Indirect costs:**

* Employee time spent in training: This includes the cost of paying employees for the time they spend in training.
* Opportunity cost of lost productivity: This is the value of the work that employees could have done if they were not in training.
**Example:**


``````
Direct costs:
Training materials: $1,000
Instructor fees: $5,000
Travel expenses: $2,000

Indirect costs:
Employee time spent in training: $10,000
Opportunity cost of lost productivity: $15,000

Total training costs: $33,000
``````
Once you have calculated your training costs, you can use this information to make informed decisions about your training budget and to identify areas where costs can be reduced. For example, if you find that the opportunity cost of lost productivity is high, you may want to consider offering training during off-peak hours or on weekends.



## Google Sheet
...
> 1- تحميل بيانات تكاليف تدريب الموظفين  [HR-KPI_Training.csv](/data/HR-KPI_Training.csv)


``````
=SUM('HR-KPI_Training'!B2:B)
``````
>
> النتيجة : 706500
>
...
## BigQuery
...


``````
SELECT
  SUM(Cost)
FROM
  `hrkpi-1.kpi_data.Training`
``````
>
> النتيجة: 706500
>
...
## Tableau 
...

``````
SUM([Cost] )
``````
...
## R
...

...
## Python
...

``````
 Training['Cost'].sum()
``````

...
